---
icon: material/shield-key-outline
---

# Permissions

There are three states for each individual permission in Brickadia:

* Allowed - Allow tools and features for player
* Forbidden - Disable tools and features for player
* Unchanged - Inherit the upper role's permission state between
*Allowed* or *Forbidden*

If there is an icon like this: :material-alert-outline:,
after a permission's name,
exercise caution and do not give these permissions to people you
do not fully trust.

!!! Note

    These permission tags are here for reference. They are used for the
    Set Player Permission gate.

## Always Leave Minigame

``` c
BR.Permission.AlwaysLeaveMinigame
```

Allows the player to leave the default minigame applied to them on join.

## Always Switch Team

``` c
BR.Permission.AlwaysSwitchTeam
```

Ignore all team balance restrictions in minigame. Allows the player
to be able to switch teams at all times.

## Ban :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.Ban
```

Allows the player to ban players using either the command
or the player menu.

## Building

``` c
BR.Permission.Building
```

Allows the player to build in the world.
Required for using build tools.

!!! Tip

    You can give a role that forbids this permission if a player misbehaves
    with the building tools.

### Use Applicator

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Applicator
```

Allows the player to use the applicator.

#### Bypass Limits

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Applicator.BypassLimits
```

Player will be able to override component limits set for the Applicator.

#### Edit Bricks

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Applicator.EditBricks
```

Player will be able to modify bricks and component settings.

#### Edit Entities

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Applicator.EditEntities
```

Player will be able to modify entities' settings.

### Clear Bricks

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Clear
```

Allows the player to clear *their own* bricks.

#### Clear Bricks Of Others :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Clear
```

Allows the player to clear other players' bricks.

### Use Connector

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Connector
```

Allows the player to use the connector.

#### Edit Wires

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Connector.EditWires
```

Player will be able to connect or detach wires.

### Edit Public Bricks

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.EditPublic
```

Allows the player to interact with bricks that are under
public ownership.

### Use Hammer

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Hammer
```

Allows the player to use the hammer.

#### Delete Bricks

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Hammer.DeleteBricks
```

Player can use Hammer to delete bricks.

#### Delete Entities

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Hammer.DeleteEntities
```

Player can use Hammer to delete entities.

### Ignore Trust :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.IgnoreTrust
```

Player can use building tools on other people's creations regardless
of the trust system.

### Load Prefab as Save

!!! question "Temporary feature"

    There is no guarantee that this feature will not be
    deprecated or superseded by new features and systems in place.

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Load
```

Player is able to load prefabs as legacy files.

### Use Manipulator

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Manipulator
```

Allows the player to use the Manipulator.

### Use Painter

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Painter
```

Allows the player to use the Painter.

#### Paint Bricks

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Painter.PaintBricks
```

Player is able to paint bricks using the Painter.

##### Fill Paint Bricks

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Painter.PaintBricks.Fill
```

Player is able to use the fill paint function of the Painter.

### Use Builder

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer
```

Allows the player to use the Builder.

#### Build On Others' Grids Without Trust :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.BuildOnOthersGridsWithoutTrust
```

Allows the player to bypass the trust system for others' grids,
so that they can build on brick grids that aren't theirs
without requiring authorization.

#### Build Outside Build Zones

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.BuildOutsideBuildZones
```

Allows the player to build outside of designated areas that
are generated by zone bricks.

#### Delete Bricks

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.DeleteBricks
```

Allows the player to delete bricks using the Builder.

#### Delete Entities

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.DeleteEntities
```

Allows the player to delete entities using the Builder.

#### Follow Mode

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.FollowMode
```

Allows the player to use the Follow mode of the Builder.

#### Pick Colors

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.PickColors
```

Allows the player to pick colors from objects using the Builder.

#### Pick Objects

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.PickObjects
```

Allows the player to pick objects using the Builder.

#### Place Bricks

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.PlaceBricks
```

Allows the player to place bricks using the Builder.

##### Bypass Brick Placement Limits :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.PlaceBricks.BypassPlaceLimits
```

Brick placement limits will not apply to player.

#### Place Entities

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.PlaceEntities
```

Allows the player to place entities using the Builder.

##### Bypass Entity Limits :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.PlaceEntities.BypassEntityLimits
```

Total entities & physics objects count limit per player
will not apply to player.

##### Bypass Entity Placement Limits :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.PlaceEntities.BypassPlaceLimits
```

Entities & physics objects count limit applied at placement
will not apply to player.

#### Place In Air

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.PlaceEntities.BypassPlaceLimits
```

Allows the player to place objects mid-air.

#### Place Locked (Planar)

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.PlaceLocked
```

Allows the player to place with plane lock on the Builder.

#### Precision Mode

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.PrecisionMode
```

Allows the player to use the Precision mode of the Builder.

#### Resize Place

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.ResizePlace
```

Allows the player to use the Resize placing mode of the Builder.

##### Switch Axis

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Placer.ResizePlace.SwitchAxis
```

Allows the player to switch axes when using the Resize placing mode
of the Builder.

### Use Prefabs

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Prefabs
```

Allows the player to use Prefabs.

#### Bypass Prefab Limits :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Prefabs.BypassLimits
```

Prefab limits do not apply to player.

#### Bypass Prefab Timeout :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Prefabs.BypassTimeout
```

Prefab timeout does not apply to player.

#### Load Prefabs From Client

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Prefabs.LoadFromClient
```

Allows the player to load Prefabs from their client.

#### Load Prefabs From Server

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Prefabs.LoadFromServer
```

Allows the player to load Prefabs from the server.

#### Manage Server Prefabs

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Prefabs.Manage
```

Allows the player to manage Prefabs on the server.

#### Save Prefabs To Server

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Prefabs.SaveToServer
```

Allows the player to save Prefabs to the server.

### Use Resizer

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Resizer
```

Allows the player to use the Resizer.

### Use Selector

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Selector
```

Allows the player to use the Selector.

#### Bypass Selector Limits :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Selector.BypassLimits
```

Selector limits do not apply to player.

#### Bypass Selector Trust :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Selector.BypassSelectionTrust
```

When the player uses the Selector, the Trust system will be bypassed.

#### Bypass Selector Timeout :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Selector.BypassTimeout
```

Selector time out does not apply to player.

#### Preserve Ownership

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Selector.PreserveOwnership
```

When the player uses the Selector, the Trust system will be bypassed.

#### Make Physics Object

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.Selector.Split
```

Player is able to use the Selector to split off bricks, making new objects
out of the selection.

### View Hidden Bricks

``` c
BR.Permission.Building.ViewHiddenBricks
```

Player is able to view all bricks hidden using the Applicator

## Chat

``` c
BR.Permission.Chat
```

Allows the player to chat.

!!! Tip

    You can give a role that forbids this permission if a player is misbehaving
    with the chat.

## Edit Environment :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.EditEnvironment
```

## Edit Minigame

``` c
BR.Permission.EditMinigame
```

Player is able to edit *their own* minigames.

### Always Edit Minigame :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.EditMinigame.AlwaysEdit
```

Player is able to edit *all* minigames regardless of their respective creators.

### Make Default Minigame :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.EditMinigame.MakeDefault
```

Player is able to set a default minigame for the server, effectively
forcing all players to be in the selected minigame.

### Make Persistent Minigame

``` c
BR.Permission.EditMinigame.MakePersistent
```

Player is able to have the option to make their own minigame still run
even if they, as a creator, leave their minigame.

### Use All Bricks In Minigame

!!! question "Temporary feature"

    There is no guarantee that this feature will not be
    deprecated or superseded by new features and systems in place.

``` c
BR.Permission.EditMinigame.UseAllBricks
```

Player is able to make minigame that include *all* bricks in the entire
server, including *any* spawn and checkpoint bricks.

## Edit Roles :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.EditRoles
```

Player gains access to edit roles and their permissions.

## Edit Server Settings :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.EditServerSettings
```

Player gains access to edit *all* server settings.

## Flashlight

``` c
BR.Permission.Flashlight
```

Player is able to use their own flashlight.

## Fly

``` c
BR.Permission.Fly
```

Player is able to navigate the map by flying.

### Ghost Fly

``` c
BR.Permission.Fly.Ghost
```

Player is able to navigate the map by flying *while having ghost
on at the same time.*

## Freeze Camera

``` c
BR.Permission.FreezeCamera
```

Player is able to freeze their camera using their preferred hotkey.

## Grab Objects

``` c
BR.Permission.GrabObjects
```

Player is able to grab objects with their hand.

## Grant Roles :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.GrantRoles
```

Player is able to grant roles to other players.

## Kick :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.Kick
```

Player is able to kick other players. This is different to a ban.

## Multi-Client :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.MultiClient
```

Player is able to run multiple instances of Brickadia at once on the
server.

!!! warning

    Player amount poses a significant performance impact both to the
    server and the machine the player runs on. It is recommended to
    only enable this if you trust that people won't abuse this to
    intentionally slow the server down.

## Self Destruct

``` c
BR.Permission.SelfDestruct
```

Player is able to self-destruct themselves and activate
ragdoll on death when in a multiplayer server.

## Spawn Items

``` c
BR.Permission.SpawnItems
```

Player is able to spawn in items from the catalog.

!!! Tip

    If there's a player annoying people with weapons, you can grant
    a role that forbids this permission. If you can't enforce it,
    manifest it.

## Sprint

``` c
BR.Permission.Sprint
```

Player is able to sprint.

## Teleport

``` c
BR.Permission.TP
```

Player is able to teleport to other players or locations.

### Teleport In Minigame :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.TP.InMinigame
```

Player is able to teleport to other players in minigames.

### Teleport Others :material-alert-outline:{title="Risky permission"}

``` c
BR.Permission.TP.Others
```

Player is able to teleport other players to themselves or other locations.
